Add Test automation article for mobile (#9)
infinum/devproc-handbook: General coding practices/Test Automation (Mobile) - element IDs.md

> **Chapters:**

Reviewer: We can skip ToC on shorter chapters like this

Author: Removed ✅ 
I added it initially so that mobile devs can easily find and jump to the paragraphs for their respective platforms - iOS or Android (XML vs Compose). So that they don't have to read through the whole text in order to find the section for their platform - because not all of it is relevant to them, just the sections for their respective platform.
It's a quick update, I can re-add it if you think it makes sense to have it 😄

While implementing IDs, the developer should sync with the responsible tester who will be doing the automated tests for IDs and implementation limitations. There shouldn’t be any compromises to the quality of features and usability when implementing these IDs.

### Naming

The IDs added to elements should be **unique** (most importantly - be unique on a specific screen). For that purpose, **prefixes and/or suffixes** can be used to define the ID of the component more precisely. That will be especially helpful in the case when the component consists of other sub-components which will also have IDs added to them.

*Example:* 

<span style="display:block; border: 1px solid #e0e0e0; margin-top:15px; margin-bottom:15px; margin-left:auto; margin-right:auto; width:80%;">![Android Naming Example](/img/test_automation/TA_Naming.png)</span>

Developers can follow naming conventions for their respective platform (*camelCase*, *snake_case*, or other).

## iOS

### Accessibility Identifier

> For UI testing purposes Apple provides us with a so-called [accessibilityIdentifier](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiaccessibilityidentification/1623132-accessibilityidentifier). It is meant to "be used to uniquely identify a UI element in the scripts we write using the UI Automation interfaces". Accessibility identifiers aren't accessed by e.g. VoiceOver. They are part of the `UIAccessibilityIdentification` protocol, which consists of methods that associate a **unique identifier** with elements in a user interface. The only strict requirement for adhering to this protocol is defining the `accessibilityIdentifier` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For UI testing purposes Apple provides us with a so-called [accessibilityIdentifier](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiaccessibilityidentification/1623132-accessibilityidentifier). It is meant to "be used to uniquely identify a UI element in the scripts we write using the UI Automation interfaces". Accessibility identifiers aren't accessed by e.g. VoiceOver. They are part of the `UIAccessibilityIdentification` protocol, which consists of methods that associate a **unique identifier** with elements in a user interface.
```

No need to mention this, this is something that is default to a protocol definition

> `UIAccessibilityIdentification: var accessibilityIdentifier: String? { get set }`

Reviewer: This as well, you can omit it

Author: Just to confirm - you meant the whole paragraph, not just the code example, right? I removed both the paragraph and code example, but left a small note regarding accessibility similar to the one that we have for Android
```
NOTE: accessibilityIdentifier isn't used for text-to-speech accessibility (accessed by e.g. VoiceOver).
```

Reviewer: Sorry, I wasn't specific - the paragraph was fine and necessary 😄 but the code example can be omitted. I've expected from GH to highlight only than line of code thingy but for some reason it highlighted the whole chapter. Sorry!

Author: No worries, I thought the same because I expected GH to state which line is affected by the comment. 😄 
I reverted the removal and updated the text as per other comments. It should be okay now.

> The mobile developer needs to set accessibilityIdentifiers on elements that are being inspected as a part of test automation (e.g., buttons, input fields, list containers and items, titles, etc.). An accessibility identifier can be set using storyboards or programmatically. In our app, we should set it programmatically to have more readable code and to make changes easier if some identifier needs to be updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mobile developer needs to set `accessibilityIdentifier` on elements that are being inspected as a part of test automation (e.g., buttons, input fields, list containers and items, titles, etc.). An accessibility identifier can be set using storyboards or programmatically. In our app, we should set it programmatically to have more readable code and to make changes easier if some identifier needs to be updated.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mobile developer needs to set accessibilityIdentifiers on elements that are being inspected as a part of test automation (e.g., buttons, input fields, list containers and items, titles, etc.). An accessibility identifier can be set using storyboards or programmatically.
```

I wouldn't insist on this one - each project has its own structure. If the project is exclusively and extensively using SB, developer will probably use SB for setting identifier as well which is from dev perspective totally fine.

> For list items that are not known in advance, the developer should implement an ID to the list container. After that, the testers should be able to get those elements as children of the container. Also, in case of adding IDs to individual list items that are not known in advance, it is alright if the same ID is implemented to them because the automation framework can locate such elements by combining the ID and text of the element.

Reviewer: Maybe it's just me, but the `the developer` and `the tester` narrative throughout the chapter is a bit weird. It seems like we are doing some kind of a division between those two folks on the project. For example this one:

```
For list items that are not known in advance, the developer should implement an ID to the list container.
```

I would rework it a bit to

```
For list items that are not known in advance, developers should implement an ID into the list container.
```
 or
```
For list items that are not known in advance, ID should be added to te list container.
```

What do you think about it? I do not insist on this one!

Author: Completely agree with you. 😄 
I updated it in the whole text and left "developer/tester" only in the cases where it is needed for semantic reasons. The rest is updated (either passive or generic forms are used). Feel free to check it out.

<span style="display:block; border: 1px solid #e0e0e0; margin-top:15px; margin-bottom:15px; margin-left:auto; margin-right:auto; width:100%;">![Android Static Element Example](/img/test_automation/TA_Android_Static.png)</span>

#### Dynamically added elements

Dynamically added elements can be split into 2 categories. Ones that are known in advance and others that are unknown.

##### Known in advance
For the ones that are known in advance, they should be set in ids.xml file as item of type="id". After that, they can be programmatically set to the ID of an element that they represent.

*Example:*

`fragment_select_appliance_category.xml` contains `list_item_appliance_category.xml` as elements of a list. Since categories are known in advance they can be set up in `ids.xml` and added programmatically to the list item.

<span style="display:block; border: 1px solid #e0e0e0; margin-top:15px; margin-bottom:15px; margin-left:auto; margin-right:auto; width:100%;">![Android Dynamic Element Example](/img/test_automation/TA_Android_Dynamic.png)</span>

##### Unknown in advance

> For list items that are not known in advance, the developer should implement an ID to the list container. After that, the testers should be able to get those elements as children of the container. Also, in case of adding IDs to individual list items that are not known in advance, it is alright if the same ID is implemented to them because the automation framework can locate such elements by combining the ID and text of the element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For list items that are not known in advance, while developing ID should be added to the list container. After that, while testing we should be able to get those elements as children of the container. Also, in case of adding IDs to individual list items that are not known in advance, it is alright if the same ID is implemented to them because the automation framework can locate such elements by combining the ID and text of the element.
```

The same thing as above, what do you think?

Author: Updated: https://github.com/infinum/devproc-handbook/pull/9#discussion_r1562873145
